[[!meta title="Privacy loving Linux generalist"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="jobs" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!tag job/staff]]
[[!tag job/open]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

Summary
=======

The Foundations Team at Tails is hiring a Linux generalist. Tails is a portable
operating system that protects against surveillance and censorship.
The Foundations Team is responsible for maintaining, releasing, and improving
Tails. We work remotely, and do not have a traditional office space.

About Tails
===========

Tails makes digital security tools accessible to everyone, whenever they need
it: activists, journalists, freedom fighters, and ultimately, you, whenever you
need extra privacy in this digital world.

The Tails project was started in 2009 and has now more than 30 000 daily users.

Read more about our [[mission and values|contribute/mission]].

<div id="benefits">

  <div class="benefit">

    <h3>Non-profit</h3>

    <p>We put our users first, not profits.</p>

  </div>

  <div class="benefit">

    <h3>Equal opportunity, equal pay</h3>

    <p>We are committed to creating an inclusive and equitable
    environment for all. We have a transparent compensation scheme where
    everybody enjoys comparable pay and benefits.</p>

  </div>

  <div class="benefit">

    <h3>Small team</h3>

    <p>We are a small team that values transparency, autonomy, and horizontal
    decision-making.</p>

  </div>

</div>

About this position
===================

Role description
----------------

You are a Linux generalist who likes analyzing and solving technical problems in
many different areas of a GNU/Linux system. You can dedicate at least 20 hours
a week to Tails, although 30 hours a week would be ideal.

You will join our Foundations Team, whose [[many
responsibilities|contribute/working_together/roles/foundations_team]] are
divided among its members. We do not expect any single member to take all these
responsibilities themselves — it's a team effort!

Our main activity is what we call "plumbing": gluing things together without
necessarily understanding in depth every individual part.

You will be responsible for releasing Tails once every 2 months.
Managing Tails’s release is a 2-day shift during which you will work a bit more
than usual, and at unusual times. We plan this shift in advance, and rotate this
responsiblity within the team.

You will be a Core Worker. Core Workers are in charge of maintaining not only an
operating system but also the good health of the project as a whole. Together,
we continuously discuss and improve organizational and strategic aspects of
the project.

Requirements
------------

We encourage you to apply if:

- You have significant experience with GNU/Linux, and system
  administration basics.
  - Ideally this would be on Debian or one of its derivatives. If your
    experience is about other Linux environments, that's fine: be ready to learn
    lots of Debian-specific stuff!
- You are somewhat familiar, or at least excited about, modern Linux desktop and
  GNOME technologies,such as D-Bus, GTK, Flatpak, systemd, etc.
- You have intermediate familiarity with:
  - one programming language among Python and Ruby
  - POSIX-like shell scripting, such as Bash
  - as a bonus: JavaScript or Object-oriented Perl with Moo
- You like to learn new stuff: Tails is big and you probably don't know
  everything yet — nobody does!
- You have good verbal and written communication skills in English.
- You are self-organized, systematic, able to set priorities and
  manage timelines.
- You are interested in *how* groups of people communicate, express & hear needs
  & feelings, handle crisis & conflicts, organize work, and make decisions.
- You are enthusiastic about our [[mission and values|contribute/mission]],
  motivated by social impact.
- You have some experience working fully remote, primarily with
  asynchronous communication.
- You can work comfortably at least 3 hours during the peak of Tails activities:
  between 10:00 and 17:00 Europe/Berlin.

Working conditions
------------------

Given how Tails work is organized, you will:

- Primarily work remotely and asynchronously with other people, who may live in
  a different time zone.
- Use GitLab, email, Jabber/XMPP, and video calls.
- Also meet in-person a few times a year.
- Participate in self-organizing a team whose members have varying degrees of
  involvement and complementary skill sets.
  - For example: attend remote and face to face team meetings, triage bugs
    together, collectively build a roadmap.

If you identify as being part of a group that is under-represented in Free and
Open Source Software communities, we particularly encourage you to apply.
Tails is not as diverse as we would like it to be. For example, paid workers at
Tails are currently all cis-males, predominantly white. We are committed to
creating a more inclusive and respectful work environment, which would be
welcoming to more diverse people.

Compensation and benefits
-------------------------

Pay scale is 40–90 k€ per year for 20-30 hours a week, including medical coverage.

[[!inline pages="jobs/compensation" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

How to apply
============

Send an email to <tails-jobs@riseup.net>.

<style>
.apply-portfolio { display: none; }
</style>

[[!inline pages="jobs/apply" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
