[[!meta title="System requirements and recommended hardware"]]

Summary
=======

- Tails works on most PC computers that are less than 10 years old.
- Tails works on some older Mac computers with an Intel processor.
- Tails does not work on newer Mac computers with an Apple processor (M1 or M2).
- Tails might not work on:
  * Some older computers, for example, if they don't have enough RAM.
  * Some newer computers, for example, if their [[graphics card is incompatible with Linux|support/known_issues/graphics]].
  * "Gaming" graphics cards like Nvidia or AMD Radeon, which are often incompatible.

<p>See our [[list of known hardware compatibility
issues|support/known_issues]].</p>

</div>

Hardware requirements
=====================

- A USB stick of 8 GB minimum or a recordable DVD.

  All the data on this USB stick or DVD will be lost when installing Tails.

- The ability to start from a USB stick or a DVD reader.

- A 64-bit <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia x86-64]]</span>
  compatible processor:
  - <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia IBM_PC_compatible]]</span> but not
    <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia PowerPC]]</span> nor
    <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia ARM_architecture desc="ARM"]]</span>.
  - Tails works on some older Mac computers with an Intel processor.
  - Tails does not work on newer Mac computers with an [[!wikipedia Apple_silicon#M_series desc="Apple processors"]] (M1 or M2).
  - Tails does not work on 32-bit computers since [[Tails 3.0|news/Tails_3.0_will_require_a_64-bit_processor]] (June 2017).
  - Tails does not work on phone or tablets.

- 2 GB of RAM to work smoothly.

  Tails can work with less than 2 GB RAM but might behave strangely or crash.

Recommended hardware
====================

Laptop models evolve too rapidly for us to be able to provide an up-to-date
list of recommended hardware. Below are some guidelines if you, or your
organization, are considering acquiring a laptop dedicated to running Tails.

### For PC

- Avoid "gaming" models with Nvidia or AMD Radeon graphics cards.
- Consider buying a refurbished laptop from a high-end (professional) series.
  These are cheaper and will last longer than new but lower-quality laptops.
  * For example, the Lenovo ThinkPad series work well with Tails,
    including the X250, X1 Carbon, T440, T480, and T490 models.
  * If you live in a part of the world where buying refurbished laptops is
    uncommon, look on eBay and Amazon. Amazon offers a 90-day [Amazon Renewed
    Guarantee](https://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.html?nodeId=G4ZAA22U35N373NX).
- Consider buying a new laptop from vendors who guarantee the compatibility
  with Linux and Tails like [ThinkPenguin](https://www.thinkpenguin.com/).

### For Mac

Unfortunately, we don't know of any Mac model that works well in Tails and can
run the latest macOS version.

<!--

To update the list of Mac computer:

1. Store an archive of WhisperBack reports from the last 6 months in a folder.

2. Decrypt all the reports:

   ~/Tails/blueprints/stats/whisperback_scripts/decrypt.rb

3. Extract the list of computer models:

   ~/Tails/blueprints/stats/whisperback_scripts/content_of.rb "/usr/sbin/dmidecode -s system-product-name" > machines

4. Sort and count identical models:

   grep -v Bug_report machines | sort | uniq -c | sort -rhk 1 > top

5. Share WhisperBack reports number with the Foundations team and ask them to
   evaluate hardware compatibility hints in those reports.

   While analyzing the reports corresponding from each model, FT should:

   - Check whether they were sent from the same email address, if any
   - Check whether the wlan0 interface was the same hardware device
   - Check whether the report was about hardware compatibility issues

6. Check whether these Mac models still support the latest version of macOS.

To update the list of PC computers:

- Check what's commonly available with refurbishing companies.

- Ask tails-assembly@ for models.

-->
