[[!meta title="Tails 5.16"]]
[[!meta date="Mon, 6 Aug 2023 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [12.5.2](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1252/).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [102.14.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/102.14.0/releasenotes/).

- Display the passphrase recommendation for the Persistent Storage in small
  caps only.

  Capitalizing each word is more cumbersom and not more secure.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Fix some failures while unlocking the Persistent Storage. ([[!tails_ticket 19728]])

  Sometimes, *upgrading* the cryptographic parameters of the Persistent Storage
  was taking too long and made *unlocking* the Persistent Storage fail. We
  allowed the *upgrade* to take more time before reporting a failure.

  Please keep reporting errors using
  [[*WhisperBack*|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]] if you have problems
  unlocking your Persistent Storage.

- Fix the circuit view of *Tor Browser* that was sometimes not displayed.
  ([[!tails_ticket 19897]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 5.16</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 5.0 or later to 5.16.

  You can [[reduce the size of the download|doc/upgrade#reduce]] of future
  automatic upgrades by doing a manual upgrade to the latest version.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/windows]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]
  - [[Install from Debian or Ubuntu using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 5.16 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]
